---
title: Git Learning Note
date: 2018-06-03
permalink: /posts/2018-06-03-Git-Note/
excerpt: How to use Git from scratch
tags:
  - Learning Notes
---

# My Git Learning Note  
*Author: Changsheng Lu (卢长胜)*

## 0、Install Git  
1) download Git from [official website](https://git-scm.com/) and install it in your computer. Please note that downloading suitable version according to the OS of your computer.  
2) run the **Git bash** in your desired directory.   

## 1、Create repository in two ways  
1) create a local repository by cloning repo from cloud. The default up-stream is the repo that you cloned.  
git clone https://github.com/AlanLuSun/Circle-detection.git  

2) create a local folder, and then initialize it with instructions as follows  
git init  
git remote add origin https://github.com/AlanLuSun/Circle-detection.git  
git push -u origin master  
*it should note that we need to specify the remote repo as up-stream by using **git remote add origin ...***  
  
## 2、Add, show and delete remote repos  
1) git remote add mine https://github.com/AlanLuSun/Circle-detection.git  
2) git remote -v  
3) git remote remove mine  

## 3、Set the head of the remote up-stream. say there exists two remote repos: mine and origin, and we wanna set origin as head.  
1) git remote set-head origin  

## 4、Add files to staging environment  
1) git add . //add all files  
2) git add test.md //add test.md  

## 5、Make a commit for packaging the added files  
1) git commit -m "my commit"  

## 6、Build or delete a branch and switch to desired branch  
1) git branch my-branch-name  
2) git checkout my-branch-name //switch to branch *my-branch-name*  
3) git checkout -b my-branch-name //this command line equals to above two  
4) git checkout master  //go back master branch  
5) git branch -d branch-name //delete fully merged branch  
git branch -D branch-name //delete a branch even if not merged  

## 7、Merge branches. Suppose that we currently are at *master* branch and would like to merge *new-branch*  
git merge new-branch  

## 8、Pull remote repo into local repo, which aims to synchronize local repo and remote repo  
1) git fetch origin master  
2) git merge origin/master //merge to local branch  
3) git pull origin master //this command line equals to above two lines  
above command lines can deal with the case of when remote files are different with local files which will lead to push problems.  

## 9、Automatically create a new branch repo for remote master. We first create a *new-branch* for local *master*, and then push it to remote repo  
1) git checkout -b new-branch  
2) ...//do something  
3) git push origin new-branch //note that current branch is *new-branch* instead of *master*  

## 10、Show current status  
1) git status  

## 11、
